# play_store_analysis
Analyzing the success of 10,000+ Google Play Store apps.

As something we interact with everyday, the app market is a direct reflection of our needs and inclinations. Whether you are a tech company which wants to develop a new app, or just trying to tap into which way the app market is trending, analyzing Google Play Store data is a great place to start.
In this project, I aim to tackle this** data set, which catalogues over 10,000 apps on the Google Play Store. For each app, the dataset has information on the name, category, overall rating, number of reviews, install count range, size of the app, the cost of the app, the content rating, the genre, the last time it was updated, current version, and android compatibility.
Obviously, that is a lot of information and I don’t plan on using all of it. My main goal in this project is to assess app success depending on a few varying factors: Category, Content Rating, and App Type (free or paid). I plan on using four main indicators of success: Overall Rating, Reviews, Installs, and a ratio of Reviews per Install, which I will call RPI. I want to test whether or not for each success indicator there exists a single category, content rating, or app type which performs statistically better than the others. 
For each success indicator I will find the category, content rating, and app type which performs the best on average. Then I will isolate that group, and compare it to all other apps, checking both distributions to see that there is enough data, and whether or not they are normally distributed. If they are, I will run a t-test on the two groupings to see if there is a significant difference. If the distributions are not normally distributed, I will use a Kruskal Wallis test instead. If there is a significant difference, I will assess the effect size. If there isn’t a significant difference, the null hypothesis will be correct and I will have to reject my alternate hypothesis.
I think that identifying which categories, content ratings, and app types are most successful would be a valuable endeavor for anybody planning on creating/developing new apps, and the extrapolations from this information will open up new questions to think about in regards to the relationships we have to the app market.

**https://drive.google.com/file/d/19NY7Pgc9hH9Z69GpIvHySd1YrFj9i7We/view?usp=sharing
